docs/rotation_and_vector_formats.md, before:

In order to save memory, quantization is used on sampled values to reduce their footprint. To do so, a number of formats are used.

# Vector formats

Note that in order to be able to use some of these formats, track data needs to be within a known range, typically normalized.

### Vector3 96

Simple full precision format. Each component `[X, Y, Z]` is stored with full floating point precision using `float32`.

### Vector3 48

Each component `[X, Y, Z]` is stored with `uint16_t`.

### Vector3 32

The code supports storing each component `[X, Y, Z]` on an arbitrary number of bits but we hard coded `[11, 11, 10]` for our purposes.

### Vector3 Variable

The compression algorithm will use any of the other supported Vector3 formats. An algorithm will select which format to use for each track while keeping the memory footprint and error as low as possible.

# Rotation formats

Internally, rotation formats reuse the vector formats with some tweaks.

### Quat 128

A full precision quaternion format. Each component `[X, Y, Z, W]` is stored with full precision using `float32`.

## Dropping the quaternion W component

As it turns out, every rotation can be represented by two distinct and opposite quaternions: a quaternion and its negated opposite. This is possible because [quaternions represent a hypersphere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternions_and_spatial_rotation#The_hypersphere_of_rotations). As such, a component can be dropped and trivially reconstructed with a square root simply by ensuring that the component is positive and the quaternion normalized.

### Quat 96

Same as Vector3 96 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat 48

Same as Vector3 48 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat 32

Same as Vector3 32 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat Variable

The compression algorithm will use any of the other supported Quat formats that drop the W component. An algorithm will select which format to use for each track while keeping the memory footprint and error as low as possible.

Commit message:

Updating format documentation to reflect the changes to the variable quantization.

docs/rotation_and_vector_formats.md, after:

In order to save memory, quantization is used on sampled values to reduce their footprint. To do so, a number of formats are used.

# Vector formats

Note that in order to be able to use some of these formats, track data needs to be within a known range, typically normalized.

### Vector3 96

Simple full precision format. Each component `[X, Y, Z]` is stored with full floating point precision using `float32`.

### Vector3 48

Each component `[X, Y, Z]` is stored with `uint16_t`.

### Vector3 32

The code supports storing each component `[X, Y, Z]` on an arbitrary number of bits but we hard coded `[11, 11, 10]` for our purposes.

### Vector3 Variable

The compression algorithm will search for the optimal bit rate among 16 possible values. An algorithm will select which bit rate to use for each track while keeping the memory footprint and error as low as possible.

# Rotation formats

Internally, rotation formats reuse the vector formats with some tweaks.

### Quat 128

A full precision quaternion format. Each component `[X, Y, Z, W]` is stored with full precision using `float32`.

## Dropping the quaternion W component

As it turns out, every rotation can be represented by two distinct and opposite quaternions: a quaternion and its negated opposite. This is possible because [quaternions represent a hypersphere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quaternions_and_spatial_rotation#The_hypersphere_of_rotations). As such, a component can be dropped and trivially reconstructed with a square root simply by ensuring that the component is positive and the quaternion normalized.

### Quat 96

Same as Vector3 96 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat 48

Same as Vector3 48 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat 32

Same as Vector3 32 above to store `[X, Y, Z]`.

### Quat Variable

See [Vector3 Variable](https://github.com/nfrechette/acl/blob/develop/docs/rotation_and_vector_formats.md#vector3-variable)
